README.md, before:

# prisma-axiom [![CI](https://github.com/axiomhq/prisma-axiom/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/axiomhq/prisma-axiom/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

Axiom observability middleware for Prisma.

## Quickstart

1. Install prisma-axiom

```shell
npm install --save prisma-axiom
```

2. Add the following where you initialize your Prisma client:

```ts
import withAxiom from 'prisma-axiom';
const prisma = withAxiom(new PrismaClient());
```

> **Note**: This will configure Axiom from the `AXIOM_TOKEN` and other 
> environment variables. Check out the
> [Kitchen Sink Full Configuration](#kitchen-sink-full-configuration) for more
> advanced configuration.

3. Enable the prisma tracing preview feature in `schema.prisma` like this:

```js
generator client {
  provider        = "prisma-client-js"
  previewFeatures = ["tracing"]
}
```

## Kitchen Sink Full Configuration

Import and use `withAxiom` to automatically setup & configure OpenTelemetry
with the Prisma instrumentation sending traces to Axiom.

You can configure `prisma-axiom` by passing an options object as the second
parameter to `withAxiom`.

This snippet shows all available options:

```ts
const prisma = withAxiom(new PrismaClient(), {
  axiomToken:                 "xaat-xxxxx",
  axiomUrl:                   "https://my-axiom.example.org",
  additionalInstrumentations: [new HttpInstrumentation()] // add more instrumentations to the tracing setup
});
```

### Custom Configuration

When you have your OpenTelemetry setup you can use the Axiom's exporter, and 
attach it to the provider. 
See the [extend-otel example](./examples/extend-otel/index.ts) for more details.

The exporter can automatically retreive the Axiom token and url variables from `AXIOM_URL` and `AXIOM_TOKEN` respectively, but they can also be passed as
parameters.

This is what it could look like:

```ts
import { axiomTraceExporter } from 'prisma-axiom';

const provider = new NodeTracerProvider({
  resource: new Resource({
    [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: process.env.npm_package_name,
    [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_VERSION]: process.env.npm_package_version,
  }),
})

// create axiom's exporter object and add a new span processor:
const exporter = axiomTraceExporter();
provider.addSpanProcessor(new BatchSpanProcessor(exporter));
provider.register()

registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [new PrismaInstrumentation(), new HttpInstrumentation()],
});

function main () {
  // ...
}

// shutdown the provider to ensure delivery
main().finally(async () => {
  await provider.shutdown()
})
```

## FAQ & Troubleshooting

### I don't get any traces

#### Enable tracing preview in Prisma

As tracing support for Prisma is [in preview](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/preview-features/client-preview-features), you need to explicitly enable it. See [Quickstart](https://github.com/axiomhq/prisma-axiom#quickstart) step 3, `schema.prisma` has to be altered like this:

```js
generator client {
  provider        = "prisma-client-js"
  previewFeatures = ["tracing"]
}
```

Also note that this preview feature is only available starting with Prisma v4.2.0.

#### Disconnect prisma client

Make sure to call `prisma.$disconnect()` after all your other code. If not doing so, Axiom will not receive any traces.

## License

&copy; Axiom, Inc., 2022

Distributed under MIT License (`The MIT License`).

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more information.

Commit message:

Make withAxiom a function wrapper
People don't call $disconnect on their Prisma client, we need another way to
make sure spans are flushed.

README.md, after:

# prisma-axiom [![CI](https://github.com/axiomhq/prisma-axiom/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/axiomhq/prisma-axiom/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

Axiom observability middleware for Prisma.

## Quickstart

1. Install prisma-axiom

```shell
npm install --save prisma-axiom
```

2. Wrap your main functions in `withAxiom` to automatically set up telemetry
   and flush traces before exit.

```ts
import withAxiom from 'prisma-axiom';
const prisma = new PrismaClient();

async function main() {
  // do something with prisma
}

withAxiom(main)() // wrap function 
```

> **Note**: This will configure Axiom from the `AXIOM_TOKEN` and other 
> environment variables. Check out the
> [Kitchen Sink Full Configuration](#kitchen-sink-full-configuration) for more
> advanced configuration.

3. Enable the prisma tracing preview feature in `schema.prisma` like this:

```js
generator client {
  provider        = "prisma-client-js"
  previewFeatures = ["tracing"]
}
```

## Kitchen Sink Full Configuration

Import and use `withAxiom` to automatically setup & configure OpenTelemetry
with the Prisma instrumentation sending traces to Axiom.

You can configure `prisma-axiom` by passing an options object as the second
parameter to `withAxiom`.

This snippet shows all available options:

```ts
const myFn = withAxiom(myFn, {
  axiomToken:                 "xaat-xxxxx",
  axiomUrl:                   "https://my-axiom.example.org",
  additionalInstrumentations: [new HttpInstrumentation()] // add more instrumentations to the tracing setup
});
```

### Custom Configuration

When you have your OpenTelemetry setup you can use the Axiom's exporter, and 
attach it to the provider. 
See the [extend-otel example](./examples/extend-otel/index.ts) for more details.

The exporter can automatically retreive the Axiom token and url variables from `AXIOM_URL` and `AXIOM_TOKEN` respectively, but they can also be passed as
parameters.

This is what it could look like:

```ts
import { axiomTraceExporter } from 'prisma-axiom';

const provider = new NodeTracerProvider({
  resource: new Resource({
    [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: process.env.npm_package_name,
    [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_VERSION]: process.env.npm_package_version,
  }),
})

// create axiom's exporter object and add a new span processor:
const exporter = axiomTraceExporter();
provider.addSpanProcessor(new BatchSpanProcessor(exporter));
provider.register()

registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [new PrismaInstrumentation(), new HttpInstrumentation()],
});

function main () {
  // ...
}

// shutdown the provider to ensure delivery
main().finally(async () => {
  await provider.shutdown()
})
```

## FAQ & Troubleshooting

### I don't get any traces

#### Enable tracing preview in Prisma

As tracing support for Prisma is [in preview](https://www.prisma.io/docs/concepts/components/preview-features/client-preview-features), you need to explicitly enable it. See [Quickstart](https://github.com/axiomhq/prisma-axiom#quickstart) step 3, `schema.prisma` has to be altered like this:

```js
generator client {
  provider        = "prisma-client-js"
  previewFeatures = ["tracing"]
}
```

Also note that this preview feature is only available starting with Prisma v4.2.0.

## License

&copy; Axiom, Inc., 2022

Distributed under MIT License (`The MIT License`).

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more information.
